---
layout: post
title:  "Release Notes for Gobblin 0.6.2"
date:   2016-02-01
categories: release
---

Welcome to the new Gobblin 0.6.2 release. Here you can find information about new features, bug fixes, and other improvements. New artifacts are available at Maven Central for [Hadoop 2](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22com.linkedin.gobblin%22%20AND%20v%3A%220.6.2%22) and [Hadoop 1](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22com.linkedin.gobblin%22%20AND%20v%3A%220.6.2-hadoop1%22).

## NEW FEATURES
* **Admin Dashboard** Added a web based GUI for exploring running and finished jobs in a running Gobblin daemon (thanks Eric Ogren).
* **Admin Dashboard** Added a CLI for finding jobs in the job history store and seeing their run details (thanks Eric Ogren).
* **Configuration Management** WIP: Configuration management library. Will enable Gobblin to be dataset aware, ie. to dynamically load and apply different configurations to each dataset in a single Gobblin job.
	- APIs: APIs for configuration stores and configuration client.
	- Configuration Library: loads low level configurations from a configuration store, resolves configuration dependencies / imports, and performs value interpolation.
* **Distcp** Allow using *.ready files as markers for files that should be copied, and deletion of *.ready files once the file has been copied.
* **Distcp** Added file filters to recursive copyable dataset for distcp. Allows to only copy files satisfying a filter under a base directory.
* **Distcp** Copied files that fail to be published are persisted for future runs. Future runs can recover the already copied file instead of re-doing the byte transfer.
* **JDBC** Can use password encryption for JDBC sources.
* **YARN** Added email notifications on YARN application shutdown.
* **YARN** Added event notifications on YARN container status changes.
* **Metrics** Added metric filters based on name and type of the metrics.
* **Dataset Management** POC embedded sql for config-driven retention management.
* **Exactly Once** POC for Gobblin managed exactly once semantics on publisher.

## BUG FIXES
* **Core** File based source includes previously failed WorkUnits event if there are no new files in the source (thanks Joel Baranick).
* **Core** Ensure that output file list does not contain duplicates due to task retries (thanks Joel Baranick).
* **Core** Fix NPE in CliOptions.
* **Core/YARN** Limit Props -> Typesafe Config conversion to a few keys to prevent overwriting of certain properties.
* **Utility** Fixed writer mkdirs for S3.
* **Metrics** Made Scheduled Reporter threads into daemon threads to prevent hanging application.
* **Metrics** Fixed enqueuing of events on event reporters that was causing job failure if event frequency was too high.
* **Build** Fix POM dependencies on gobblin-rest-api.
* **Build** Added conjars and cloudera repository to all projects (fixes builds for certain users).
* **Build** Fix the distribution tarball creation (thanks Joel Baranick).
* **Build** Added option to exclude Hadoop and Hive jars from distribution tarball.
* **Build** Removed log4j.properties from runtime resources.
* **Compaction** Fixed main class in compaction manifest file (thanks Lorand Bendig).
* **JDBC** Correctly close JDBC connections.

## IMPROVEMENTS
* **Build** Add support for publishing libraries to maven local (thanks Joel Baranick).
* **Build** In preparation to Gradle 2 migration, added ext. prefix to custom gradle properties.
* **Build** Can generate project dependencies graph in dot format.
* **Metrics** Migrated Kafka reporter and Output stream reporter to Root Metrics Reporter managed reporting.
* **Metrics** The last metric emission in the application has a "final" tag for easier Hive identification.
* **Metrics** Metrics for Gobblin on YARN include cluster tags.
* **Hive** Upgraded Hive to version 1.0.1.
* **Distcp** Add file size to distcp success notifications.
* **Distcp** Each work unit in distcp contains exactly one Copyable File.
* **Distcp** Copy source can set upstream timestamps for SLA events emitted on publish time.
* **Scheduling** Added Gobblin Oozie config files.
* **Documentation** Improved javadocs.
